So you said the testing
is documentation or
you had me at testing is documentation and
tests do a lot of that.
And what I was gonna add is that,
one thing that is difficult to get out of
tests or any sort of source code, right?
You can look at the source code and be, I
see what you're doing here, I understand.
Especially if the source code
is written in a nice useful way,
you can always deduce what
the source code is doing,
so documenting that is not
necessarily that useful.
But what is extremely useful, because it's
extremely difficult to get out of your
source code is,
to answer the why question.
Why are you doing what you're
doing in the source code, right?
That is something that is
extremely difficult to deduce.
And having a good explanation in
your source code on the top saying,
why am I doing this,
is super, super useful.
Let's do some coding.
And so we kind of spent a good hour
kind of talking about a theory
of why do the testing,
on how the testing works, etc, but
at the end of the day,
it's all about coding, right?
And again, as I said earlier,
humans are really good at,
if I give you a bunch of examples,
you will deduce the general
principles out of them, right?
If I just give you general principles,
you're gonna have a hard time figuring out
what does it mean in terms of code, right?
So we kind of gave you a theory,
which is the general principles, but
now we have to show you the actual
examples of how to do this so that you can
tie it back to these general principles
that we kind of talked about earlier.
So let's do that.
Now, there are lots of
different kinds of testing, and
we're gonna cover them in pieces.
We're gonna start with unit testing, which
will be just the lowest level to kinda
the most obvious way of doing the test.
Then we're gonna do some integration
testing about how to put pieces together.
Component testing, which is important
when it comes to testing your UI.
And then finally end-to-end testing,
which will actually do
the end-to-end process for it.
Okay, now inside of unit test, we can talk
about many different things and I'm kinda
gonna talk about all of them, all at
once as we kinda build these things up.
But I want you to pay attention
to the tools we use to do that,
test-driven development,
how we create marking.
Especially pay attention to dependencies,
because to me,
I think dependencies are the key thing
that makes tests possible, right?
If you have a good dependencies between
your different parts of the system,
dependencies in the sense of,
these dependencies can be mocked,
then you're gonna have
an easy time writing tests.
If on the other hand, all these
dependencies are gonna be hard coded in
without the ability to replace them,
then it's gonna be very
difficult to write a unit test.
We're gonna talk about
a little bit about coverage.
And finally, maybe some benchmark testing.
So that's the idea of all
the different pieces.
So let's dive in and
see where we're gonna get to.
Before I go to the source code,
I wanna show you,
kinda give you the goal of today.
So I have two applications here,
I have this URL
that goes into Github and
fetches data from it,
which fetches the name and
the description.
The UI is not pretty, but we're gonna
go and try to write tests for that.
And for kinda a higher level tests,
I managed to find some data
of every accident locations
in Chicago over many years.
So these are 5,000 traffic
accidents in Chicago.
And what I find interesting is that
actually paints you the map of Chicago.
And what I did is,
I ran clustering algorithm on it, and
I'm painting each particular
cluster with different color,
just kind of for fun to kind of explore.
And so this is gonna be our goal, we're
gonna get to where we're gonna build up,
we're gonna write unit tests,
we're gonna write higher level tests,
we're gonna write component tests,
end-to-end tests, and so on.
These are basically the two scenarios that
we're gonna be talking about today so
to kinda give you an overview
of where we're going, right?
Okay, so also, I have a repo,
if you wanna follow along.
It is mhevry/testing-fundamentals.
In the repo, there are two branches.
So there is the main branch which
everything is fully solved with all
the tests inside of it.
And there's a separate
branch called no-test.
And so that's the branch where we're gonna
start to, and we're essentially going to
try to recreate everything from
the no-test branch to the main branch.
Does it make sense?
Okay, so
let's start with this particular page.
So there are two things in a URL,
which is my username
on GitHub and
a project on GitHub called qwik.
And what I wanna do, is I wanna be
able to fetch the repo name and
the description out of the database,
something pretty straightforward.
So let's go back to the index.tsx, okay?
I don't wanna go down the particular
route of how this particular thing works,
but there is a function in
here called routeloader.
And this function's job is to
get your username and repo and
then download it from GitHub, right?
So what it does is it creates a header,
which is specific header,
which we have over here.
We can have the access key.
If you have it, and
maybe add it into the header.
And then we just do a fetch to a
particular URL, and we parse the JSON and
cast it to a particular type over here,
and return this, right?
Now, imagine you wanna test this.
And so this is an example of where
refactoring for testability comes in.
The only kinda test that you can really
write for this is an end-to-end test,
because while this function is
called by the framework, and
I don't actually know how to
kind of call this in here.
So a typical thing to do
would be to refactor this
to a new more testable function.
So let me show you how to do that.
So what we're gonna do is,
we're gonna take the code from here,
essentially, let me actually move this up.
And we're gonna say return,
we're gonna say const api.
I'm making stuff up now, so new=GithubApi.
I'm gonna pass in token,
and then I will say, hey,
return await api getRepository for
username and repo, right?
This is kind of a useful API that
you can think of that would be here.
And now I need to go and create this.
So I'm gonna create an api.ts.
I'm gonna call it GitHubApi.
So let's just put it next to each other,
so we can see both.
Wow, it did a lot of stuff for me here.
Is that correct?
I don't know,
let me just put whatever I have in my,
I wanna move this type across.
Sorry, that's not the right location.
And then I need to get the type here
It becomes this oops,
And then that would be the token, right?
Okay, so all I've done now is I
pulled this code out into a new file.
And the reason why this is important
is because string are undefined,
so this needs to be string are undefined.
[COUGH] Is I pulled it out
into a separate piece of code.
And by pulling it out,
now gives me freedom to be able to much
easier test this particular code, right?
This refactoring was
a relatively simple refactoring,
I just moved the function
to a separate file so
that now I don't have to figure out how
to call it in this complicated way with
those routeloader, instead I can
call it directly inside of here.
And you can argue, and I think I would
argue that this is actually cleaner in
terms of the complexity because I'm
now putting all the logic related to
fetching the code into one
location that I can now unit test.
Does that make sense?
And so if we did this correctly,
nr dev, oops,
if I run the code,
it still shows me the descriptions,
it's still successfully fetching the data.